# Free Tool

This is a free non-commercial tool to help people on a quest of amateur
ancient calendar discoveries. Using this tool and popular online maps
you can research and discover ancient calendars. It was first mentioned
in my book [“How to Rule the World”](book-link)  
  
![](.//media/image1.jpeg)

# Chrome Extension 

Source code for Ancient Calendars Discovery Tool is in [Chrome
Extension](chrome-extention) folder. While effort has been made to fox
all the bugs, this code is as-is with absolutely no warranty. In Chrome
Browser click “Manage Extensions” and click “Load Unpacked”.

# Manual Calendar Discovery Tool

If you don’t have Chrome on your device, you can re-create the tool
manually using instructions in this section. Just for fun and to spark
interest in calendar discoveries you can do from your home computer,
using online maps, I’ve made a Calendar Discovery plugin for Chrome
browser and you can download it here (GitHub Link). The tool itself was
inspired by the Sun Calc http://suncalc.net website. Remember, this is
just an amateur tool and to confirm real discovery you will need to go
to a specific location, uses expensive surveying LIDAR equipment, and do
everything properly.

You can also make the tool yourself, you just need 6 lines, 4 of those
lines are at specific angles for Winter and Summer Solstices at a GPS
point of interest on the map and 2 others are just representing the
North-South line and the East-West line (The Equinoxes). I usually use
PowerPoint for almost everything I do, but you can use any app which
allows you to draw lines and specify the exact angle of rotation for
each.

First, we need a coordinates system. For the calendar, we use a clock
system with 12 o’clock representing 0/360 degrees and we follow in the
clockwise direction.

![](.//media/image2.png)

1\. In PowerPoint or any other apps you use, place 6 vertical lines on
the page.

2\. Paint 2 lines Yellow color for Sunrises and Brown color for Sunsets.

3\. Find GPS coordinates of the location you want to build your calendar
tool for

(i.e. Giza Pyramids ~ 29.9792, 31.1342)

4\. Now we need to find angles of Sunrises and Sunsets at Summer and
Winter Solstices.

5\. Go to www.timeanddate.com and enter GPS coordinates in Search for a
place box

https://www.timeanddate.com/sun/@29.9792,31.1342

6\. Now select calendar dates for Summer and Winter Solstice days and
note Sunrise & Sunset angle.

7\. For 4 lines you added in step 5 rotate them according to angles for
each Solstice date and Sunrise/Sunset.

8\. Assemble 4 lines in the common center point so they resemble the
letter “X “

9\. For the 5th line - make it horizontal, crossing the middle point of
the “X”. In the end, you should get an image like this below. Your
angles may vary.

10\. Now take a screenshot of Maps (in Satellite mode) in GPS location
you specified in step 3. Note: Make sure the map is pointing to the
North (it usually is, unless you rotate it).

![](.//media/image3.png)

11\. Now move the Calendar tool’s center to different spots on the map
and see what connections it sees. Basically, you are trying to find what
will you see if you stand at that point on Solstice day during
Sunrise/Sunset. The finding is approximate, of course. If you can travel
to a specific location and conduct LIDAR measurements, at least this
exercise will give you a starting points. But remember small errors are
acceptable as people did not have precision instruments 10,000 years
ago.

![](.//media/image4.png)

Figure X. Ushtogay Square, Kazakhstan, Age: ~ 8,000BP

Here is some Nazca glyphs analysis. Each tribe of agrarians probably has
a mascot and they met on the Summer solstice to celebrate a good
harvest. In the spring as groundwaters rose the glyphs/mascots were
probably flooded. If you stand on the hill and did see only water, it
was a signal the Spring has arrived and it’s time to plant.

![](.//media/image5.png)

Figure X. Nazca Monkey

![](.//media/image6.jpeg)

Figure X. Nazca Condor

\<a rel="license"
href="http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/4.0/"\>\<img
alt="Creative Commons License" style="border-width:0"
src="https://i.creativecommons.org/l/by-nc-sa/4.0/88x31.png"
/\>\</a\>\<br /\>\<span xmlns:dct="http://purl.org/dc/terms/"
href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/InteractiveResource"
property="dct:title" rel="dct:type"\>Ancient Calendar Discovery
Tool\</span\> by \<span xmlns:cc="http://creativecommons.org/ns\#"
property="cc:attributionName"\>Sergey Znutin\</span\> is licensed under
a \<a rel="license"
href="http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/4.0/"\>Creative
Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 4.0 International
License\</a\>.
